#summary Frequently Asked Questions

= Frequently Asked Questions =

== Compiling ==

=== What are HiDeO dependencies? ===

In order to build HiDeO, the following software packages are required:
 * [http://gcc.gnu.org/ avg-gcc] — GCC 4.x for Atmel AVR 8-bit RISC cross-development
 * [http://www.nongnu.org/avr-libc/ avr-libc] — A C and math library for the Atmel AVR controller family
 * [http://www.bsdhome.com/avrdude/ avrdude] ­— Program for programming the on-chip memory of Atmel AVR CPUs
 * [http://www.gnu.org/software/make/ GNU Make] or [http://www.freebsd.org/cgi/cvsweb.cgi/src/usr.bin/make/ BSD Make] — A progam to maintain program dependencies

We also provide a [http://sourceforge.net/projects/kontrollerlab/ KontrollerLab] project to ease development.

== Troubeshooting ==

=== PS2 stuff does not work! Why? ===

Double-check the device fuses related to CPU frequency. It has to be configured to run at 8MHz to handle PS2 messages at the right rate. Using avrdude in terminal mode:
{{{
sudo avrdude -p m8535 -c stk200 -t
}}}
ensure you have:
{{{
avrdude> read lfuse
>>> read lfuse
0000  e4                                                |.               |

avrdude> read hfuse
>>> read hfuse
0000  d9                                                |.               |
}}}

Warning: "fresh" new microcontrollers are configured at 1MHz. Don't forget to configure them at 8Mhz:
{{{
avrdude> read lfuse
>>> read lfuse
0000  e1                                                |.               |

avrdude> write lfuse 0 0xe4
>>> write lfuse 0 0xe4

avrdude> read lfuse
>>> read lfuse
0000  e4                                                |.               |
}}}


=== Why does my chip resets while ISP is plugged? ===

Double-check your parallel port is in '''EPP''' or '''ECP''' mode in the BIOS. Additionnaly, some kernel modules may put reset line always on such as '''lp''' (GNU/Linux) or '''lpt''' (FreeBSD).

Under FreeBSD, only '''ppi(4)''' module is needed.

Under GNU/Linux, only '''ppdev''' is needed.

=== Why my 'left' and 'right' keys doesn't works? ===

Just unplugged your ISP: keyboard port are shared with ISP and two internals pull-ups haven't any effect if ISP is plugged.